With Marvel Rivals' release, there's been a lot of talk about hero bans and whether they're a good idea for Overwatch. What I want to put forward is an even more obvious idea to fix the problem of players being forced to play with/against heroes they don't like, that I don't think anyone has discussed. Not because nobody has thought of it before, in fact I think it's the first thing everybody thought about but immediately assumed it wouldn't work without actually thoroughly thinking through the benefits and issues. I think it's time the community finally had that proper discussion about the obvious answer we've all dismissed:

Player Hero Pools. Now right out the gate here, I want to acknowledge that there is an entire list of possible problems with this idea. But no system starts out perfect or even good, they need to be thought through via an iterative process of bringing up problems and solutions to actually arrive at a concept that could work. My goal here is to start that iterative process of community discussion, so we can see what a fully thought through version of this system would look like and then after we've done that, we can start to actually consider whether that could be a positive change for Overwatch. And I strongly believe it's worth going through that process as the potential upsides are just as enormous as the potential downsides.

So what would this system look like? Well the basic idea is this: For competitive modes only, players would choose a pool of heroes that they will be allowed to play per role before the match/as part of their profile, as well as select a limited number of heroes they don't want to play against. We then only match together players with compatible rosters/bans. These should be changeable at all times outside of a match as much as you want, as it's primary purpose is to help people tailor the matches they get in to, not to represent a players 'main' heroes.


Now let's start with the pros:

This system shares many of it's pros with Marvel Rivals' hero bans system, as it is designed to fix the same problem, namely that EVERYBODY has heroes they don't like to play against. It doesn't matter how well balanced they are or whether there's counterplay or even if it's a favourable match up for them, there's ALWAYS at least 1 hero that you just won't have very much fun if you have to play against. We often talk about specific problem child heroes that tend to be disliked by a large portion of the playerbase (hog/mauga/orisa/pharah/sombra/torb/moira/brig/kiriko), but most players don't hate *all* of those heroes, and in fact most players have specific 'healthy' heroes that they just don't like playing against as well. While it is important to address heroes that are generally unfun to play against individually as well, it has to be acknowledged that that will NEVER fully alleviate the problem of players being forced to play matchups that they simply don't find fun.

This is the first key difference between this system and hero bans. With Hero bans, while a team can collectively decide not to play against certain heroes, this doesn't express the individuals' specific preferences, but rather just leads to the most overall hated characters being banned, which decreases player creativity and the options players have with what they can play. This system allows each player to have their own bans that reflect them personally, not just what the community as a whole thinks.

As Samito says in ( [What Marvel Rivals does BETTER than Overwatch | ft. Samito, Freedo, & AVRL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q6X_x8rKAf0&t=1635s)), would you rather go to a restaurant where you just randomly get given a dish that the chef likes to cook, or one that gives you a menu that lets you choose which dish you want to eat? Just like with food, everybody has their own likes and dislikes, does it not obviously make more sense to let people choose to play what they like and avoid what they dislike so they can have a more fun experience with the game?

An additional benefit is being able to see your teammates' hero pools, which could massively help with building a team composition that works for everyone, and reduce the friction around teammates' hero choices. For example, when the enemy team goes pharah and the DPS get into a stalemate over who should take a hitscan, that's a very frustrating situation for everyone involved. but if you can see their hero pools, it would give a lot more context to why they're making the hero choices they are, reducing the tilt involved, and can even help the DPS to negotiate who should swap without even needing to verbally communicate and risk toxicity appearing, as both players know who is better equipped to handle the task.

* having a limited number of personal hero bans gamifies running into heroes you don't like. Even if you don't have enough ban slots for the amount of heroes you don't like playing against, by turning hero bans into a resource that you manage, this system gives the player agency, so even running into a hog when you've already used your bans on sombra and widowmaker, for example, is less aggravating because YOU made the choice to allow yourself to be matched up against hogs and YOU have the agency to change your hero bans and remove hog in the future, alleviating the frustration even in matches where you do get matched up against him. For an example of this type of system in other games, in Guilty Gear the burst meter is a very limited resource that allows you to escape your opponents combos. But because it's so limited, you still have to allow yourself to be combo'd most of the time. But the fact you have a resource that you choose how to spend to get out of a few of those combos also gamifies the combos you don't burst because you're actively making a decision, and even when you're out of burst you know it's because you chose to spend that resource somewhere else.

* The key problem with a basic hero ban system is that as it is team based you very often won't be able to ban the heroes that YOU find unfun. Similarly, players who enjoy playing unpopular heroes will often queue into matches only to immediately be banned from playing their favourite hero. Player hero pools alleviates this problem by considering what characters people like and dislike before matchmaking even begins, ensuring players are always matched into a lobby that they can enjoy.